---
layout: default
title: Fast Fashion Brands
---



Shein- This brand is known for being one of the cheapest online stores with clothes similar to Romwe, Zaful, and Modlily, who are all owned by the same company in China. Different influencers on YouTube and TikTok describe shopping at Shein as a gamble, because people get different items when ordering the same product and the pictures are often misleading. But the insanely low prices keep customers coming back. But ordering something that is so cheaply made, and may not even be the right product, causes a great amount of consumer waste. A couple years ago, I actually ordered a pair of leggings from Shein and that cost $10 and they feel as if they are made from plastic garbage bags. I have not worn them since buying them over a year ago and keep telling myself that I will someday remove the uncomfortable piece of elastic in the waistband and finally wear them. Shein has been accused of stealing designs from smaller, indie artists multiple times. They have historically used child labour and sweatshops in China to manufacture their clothing items. Their website claims that it follows each country’s child labour laws, but China’s labour laws are very far from perfect and children often want to work to help their families. In fact, all around the world 168 million children work (estimated by UNICEF). Earlier this year, there was a boycott of Shein products after they posted a gold necklace in the shape of a swastika, they have issued two apologies since. They have also been accused of cultural appropriation for copying symbols on Islamic prayer mats and selling them as decorative rugs. 

Boohoo- This company owns popular brands PrettyLittleThing and NasyGal and disclosed almost no information about fair wages, working conditions, or gender equality in the workplace. After being accused of only paying garment workers around 3.50 an hour, they denied the claims but did not share what they actually pay their workers. 

Misguided- Misguided claims to “empower women” on its trendy webpage, but has a significant wage gap between its male and female employers. There is no evidence of payment of a living wage for garment workers and the vast majority of its garment workers are women. Overall, they are not transparent about wages or working conditions in general. They have also faced a big lawsuit from Kim Kardashian for copying her outfits. 

Zara- This brand is a little more transparent in addressing climate and human rights issues, but still is undeniably fast fashion. With 500 new designs a week, this brand will inevitably produce a large amount of waste. Zara has a 5 year environmental goal, but there is no real evidence of the completion of it. 

Amazon- Despite Amazon being the biggest online shopping site in the world and Jeff Bezos being the richest man in the world, it is ranked as one of the places with the highest amount of workers on food stamps. It has also been the cause of many human rights abuses in the workplace, with multiple accounts of workers who are scared to use the restroom and miss quotas. Amazon has a record number of ambulances called to its warehouses compared to almost all other companies. Amazon can generally afford to sell goods at lower prices than small businesses, which effectively hurts them. $50 spent at a local business does not have the same impact as $50 spent at Amazon or any other fast-fashion website.

American Eagle- Their supply chain is not certified by labor standards according to goodonyou.eco and does not publish information about wages and gender equality. They don’t use many sustainable materials in the making of their clothing and have not taken any environmentally forward steps despite announcing an absolute target. 


URBN- The popular clothing brands Urban Outfitters and Free People are somewhat transparent in clothing production. They have made a few steps to be more environmentally friendly, but do not offer information or promises of living wages and humane conditions for garment workers. They also have official no animal welfare policy and use leather, wool, and exotic animal hair. 

Justice- Justice is a popular clothing store for kids that uses no products from animals in its clothing. However, there is almost no information provided by the company on environmental effects of production or worker wages.  

