---
layout: post
title: An Introduction 
---

   
Fashion is a huge part of pop culture. As social media usage increases every year, so does the fashion industry as a whole. There are new clothing and accessory trends on TikTok and Instagram every week if not every day and many brands are taking advantage of this consumerism that makes clothing items “go viral” and producing large amounts of cheaply made clothes just to fit these news trends. It is quite hard to be sustainable when you make a large amount of product, but many brands don’t even seem to be trying to limit their footprint.

 According to the Clean Clothes Campaign, “three out of five fast fashion items end up in a landfill,” due to the ever changing styles that go in and out of rotation. Since these unsustainable, cheap textiles are largely made of plastic, they simply do not decompose fully and leave microplastics in the soil and even in the ocean. In an effort to not simply throw away clothes, many Americans donate to thrift stores, but sadly over half of the donated clothing that thrift stores receive is also thrown away. The Saturday Evening Post states that, “the average American throws away around 81 pounds of clothing yearly.” If businesses continue to refuse to recycle and keep overusing resources to create cheaply made clothing, the pattern of buying and shopping will only increase. 
 
Unfortunately, sustainable clothing companies are often more expensive, but are made with better quality materials and maybe most importantly, humane working conditions. Your $9 T-Shirt was most likely made in a sweatshop by a worker making little to nothing. According to Fashion Checker, 93% of popular clothing brands that are targeted to Americans do not pay their garment workers a living wage. Only 5 of the largest 250 fast fashion brands that were surveyed had a plan to increase pay for garment workers.

 In this website, I will promote “slow fashion” or the sustainable making of clothes that creates little to no harm in the environment and treats workers fairly and reveal some of the negative impacts of popular fast fashion brands. 
  





