---
layout: default
title: Sustainable Clothing Alternatives
---

Patagonia- This brand uses eco-friendly materials and actively reduces greenhouse gas emissions. Patagonia is considerably more transparent about working conditions than many other brand. Some of its supply chain is certified by the FLA Workplace Code of Conduct. 

Girlfriend Collective- This brand produces workout clothing made of recycled materials to minimise textile waste. It also limits the amount of water that are used in production. They monitor the health and safety of factory workers, provide living wages, and are certified by Social Accountability International. 

Reformation- Clothing from Reformation is made with a high amount of eco-friendly and recyclable materials. They visit their suppliers regularly to improve working conditions and living wages. 

PACT- Uses eco-friendly materials and limits the amount of water used in production. It is a member of Fair Trade USA and ensures payment of a living wage in most of its supply chain. 

Tentree- This company uses a large amount of sustainable materials, uses renewable resources in product making, and limits their water usage. They have a Code of Conduct for labour and visit and audit some of their suppliers. They plan to plant a billion trees by 2030 and have already planted over 50 million. The tree project has also provided 100 jobs to villagers in Indonesia. 

People Tree- ALL of their clothing is made from environmentally friendly materials. It ensures payment of a living wage and traces all of its supply chains. Its products are certified by Global Organic Textile Standard and it is a member of the WFTO Guarantee System. 

Tonle- These clothing products are made by hand in order to reduce environmental impact. They use eco-friendly materials and limit water use. They trace all of their supply chain and ensure a living wage. Their website promotes zero waste fashion 

Outerknown- Uses sustainable materials, non-toxic dyes, and limits water usage. It ensures payment of a living wage to workers, traces most of its supply chain, and audits some suppliers. 

Vetta- This company uses a high amount of sustainable materials, uses renewable energy in its supply chain, and limits water usage. Most of its suppliers are in the USA, and are traced and visited regularly. 

    
  
    
